“Beneath the heavens of my province, I must obtain forgiveness. It is the greed of this
foolish one that has damned not only such kindly handmaiden but the maternity that
never will
[1[
. She sees not this one, nor the life in her womb; on the shores of the river

that thrice crosses, this one shall of er more than six coins
[2]
. Not even then will this
one, with reverence, obtain what is most desired. Not even this one will accept such
grace for there is no greater sin than to rob a mother of her child.
To the Lord-Husband, what is this one supposed to say? Surely, it is the mother’s fault
and lack of discerning eye when her son trips, is it not? Surely, it is the mother’s fault
for letting blunders and faults continue to grow when she is able to scold him and
discipline him to do otherwise? Oh, the Lord-Husband will never be able to understand.
He will never be able to understand the hardships of a mother, no matter how much
this one will endlessly love him. He will not understand this one’s mourning, or such an
overwhelming loss, especially for young women such my O-rei.
I, as a mother, weep. Did I not raise my son well? Did the attendants not watch him
more carefully? Had I let him suckle upon my bosom longer and share the warmth of
my futon, would he have committed such a grave mistake? My son, my youngest who
shares my appearance, I have given so much of myself to you. Too much.”
— The Venerated and Most Sacred Madōsho; believed to be the first recording of the
personification of the Madōsho. Translations vary from one clan member to another due
to the unfamiliar characters used.
[1[ Translator and Historian Chigiri Botan and brother, Chigiri Kaō went through many
discussions concerning this passage. Botan-dono theorized that this was in reference to a
miscarriage but Kaō-dono, whose education, in contrary to Botan-dono’s experience in
translation and history, centers around Behavioral Studies of Shinobi, believes this to be
referring to something else. Further readings show that The Third Clan Head (prior to the
formation of the first Hidden Village, Konohagakure no Sato) Chigiri Myōe [▬▬] and
[▬▬▬▬▬▬▬▬]. Access to information may be requested from resident Acting Head
Elder of Branch Family.
[2] In reference to the Sanzu River, the belief of Oshakasama is assumed to be prominent
during the time of writing. With this considered and the climate described in the
preceding entries, the province of the speaker may be located in the following lands of
unknown range: Land of Rice, Land of Frost, and Land of Fire.

THERE IS A FAMOUS SAYING IN THE CLAN: ‘WHAT IS, IS. WHAT IS NOT, IS
NOT.’
Death is neither mourned nor celebrated. Death is simply death, similar to how when one dies
and crosses the rivers of where their sins will be weighed upon the trees across, one will live
again. What is, is. What is not, is not. Therefore, she is born special. She has always known she

was born special—there are no secrets among the Chigiri Clan and like how they share blood,
they share their words, their knowledge; what is yours, is yours, as it is mine and ours. But she
was not necessarily born a ‘prodigy’, or a ‘once-in-a-generation genius. She was simply born
‘special’—and though ‘special’ means nothing when compared to the likes of ‘prodigy like the
Uchiha heir’ or the ‘once-in-a-generation genius like the White Fang’s boy’, in her clan, her
being ‘special’ means everything. One of the Elders of the Clan had said, after all, that, “Why
would we need a prodigy when we have you?” And for the longest time, and certainly even
beyond her own, she will always be special. Not a genius, not a prodigy, not anything compared
to the names of the predecessors that should have been linked to her name, but ‘special’.
She was born on the fourth of the Fifth Month, the early days of spring where the lands are held
in the highest regard, the forty-ninth day of the funeral of her cousin. Her mother said it was
unfortunate for her cousin’s mourning period to end the day she was born, and she liked telling
the story of what happened that day. “Your father held you so high I could no longer see you
even before I had a chance to hold you. He held you against the light and it looked like a halo
over your head. It was the happiest I had ever seen him,” her mother had always been the
strongest and most immovable figure in her life, just like her father but only with a much softer
curve along her face. Only then did she see her mother look vulnerable, telling her how happy
her father had been when she was born despite the date being months too early. “We did not
fear for your life, no. Your blood—our blood is strong. A woman of our clan will not die from
mere childbirth. It is shameful. We are stronger than that, just like you are, my daughter. You
are as strong as you are special.”
There are no secrets in the Clan. Secrets go hand-in-hand with feeling ashamed of the truth, is
what everybody says. The characters that form their surname may be made fun of by civilians
and shinobi alike for the connotations and its other reading, but the Chigiri Clan is a promise, a
vow that has been upheld for centuries longer than Konohagakure stood. It is destiny itself, fate
that has wrapped in each of their bones, the karma of each breath, and among them, Akene is
told that she is special. Born on the fourth of the Fifth Month and the forty-ninth day of her
cousin’s funeral, Akene is the most special. But being special does not mean being privileged.
She still has a role to fulfill, a responsibility to accomplish, and a destiny to live by.
Like every member of the Chigiri Clan, her fate will be enscripted in rocks and molten lava, and
it will be the life that she will live.
“For three days, the Elders are to take you, and in those three days, your fate will be read,”
announces a Chūnin of their Clan, a tall woman who Akene is certain has three younger siblings,
two of which are in the crowd of children with her. “It’s going to be very quick. If the Elders ask
you to do something, you do it, but you can take your time to ask questions—” she shakes her
head. “When I was your age and had my fate read, there were a lot of us. Now we barely have a
handful. Line up in order of birth month!”
Akene is sandwiched between the Chūnin’s younger sister and another boy with a darker shade
of Akene’s silvery hair. She tugs on her own hair curiously. It is tradition for the clansmen to
have long hair and the very few people she heard have hair above their necks were said to be

defectors of the Clan, unable to grow their hair out anymore. Her Chūnin cousin, Miyabi, ties
her hair tightly, a bun that sticks so closely to her head that not even a strand is out of place.
Children in the Clan tend to have the same hairstyle, parted hair pinned to their ears as tradition
states. Boys and girls cannot even be distinguished due to their similarly-styled hair. And only
after the reading of the fate are they allowed to present themselves differently, a year right
before they enter the Academy or look for a civilian apprenticeship within the Clan.
Miyabi’s younger sister, Moe, tilts her head to Akene’s direction. Her pale pinks sparkle in
excitement. “Akene’s brother did his alone, right?” She asks. “Who read his palm?”
Akene purses her lips, thinking. “I think it was Myō’on-chōrōsama? But I heard he’s bedridden
recently, so his son’s going to substitute for him.”
“Oh! I heard about that! nēsan asked me to come with her to visit the Elder but my Papa just
came back from his mission all the way from the Land of Wind, you know? I heard that the
sandstorms there have Genjutsu properties.” Moe plays with the corner of her sleeves. Her eyes
dart to their cousin at the front of the line, confidently entering the room where the Elders are
waiting. Akene feels the cold of the wooden floors seep through her thin socks. Her second
brother had all the horror stories about the fate-reading and their parents scolded him for it
every time. So far, the first cousin that entered the room successfully went out, pleased. “Which
one of Myō’on-chōrōsama’s sons is going to substitute for him? He has, like, seven sons.”
The other cousin behind Akene, pokes his head from the line. “I hope it’s Myōki-nīsan.
Myōkaku-nīsan grew so much the last time I saw him! It’s scary!” He exclaims. Miyabi, from the
front, glares at him and makes a shushing motion. He turns red in embarrassment. “Anyway, as
much as I want it to be Myōki-nīsan, he’s probably busy. His wife gave birth recently, did you
know? The baby looks exactly like him!”
“Of course!” Akene puffs her chest. “They invited us first!”
“Wh—what?! No fair! Myōki-nīsan was my mom’s student when he was a Genin!”
“Well, Myō’an-nēsan has a crush on my Nerin-nīsan, so she invited us first,” Akene resists the
giggle bubbling out of her throat when her cousin tries to make a swipe at her. She straightens
her back the moment she meets Miyabi’s warning glare and clears her throat. She takes another
glance and sees Moe right next to the sliding door of the reading room. “I think it’s going to be
Myōki-nīsan though, if it makes you feel better.” Her cousin does not, in fact, feel better and
pouts the whole time, mumbling about how cute the Elder’s eldest son’s youngest child is. But as
Moe finishes her fate-reading with the Elders and as Akene enters the room finally, decorated
with heavy incense and surrounded by the Elders in seiza, she blinks and realizes amusedly that
it is Elder Myō’on’s second daughter, Myō’an, who substituted for him.
She kneels in the middle of the room where her designated Elder awaits for her—Elder Suenaga
whom she rarely sees. But in the little memories and exchanges she shared with the Elder, she
always found his eyes memorable: brighter than most of the pinks in the eyes of a Chigiri, and

more slanted as well. She barely notices Elder Suenaga lifting a hand to ask for hers. The small
lapse of silence earns her a raised eyebrow from the Elder. Soft, she observes. She had heard that
the Elder lived more as a civilian than a shinobi but he was a shinobi before he retired
nonetheless, and yet his hands are free of scars, unlike Akene’s despite being barely five years
old. Handling kunai with small hands will no doubt get her scars but the Elder Suenaga, in his
seventies, has no mark of the wars that he should have fought in. Elder Suenaga has little
achievements to speak of but everyone understands that he is among the wisest of the wise,
being the right-hand man of the Acting Head Elder of the Fire Branch in all but name. Many
believe him to be the most likely to replace the Acting Head Elder, even though there is the Elder
Otoha who is as wise and elegant, if not even moreso.
With how soft his hands are against hers, she feels more of his piercing gaze than his feathery
hold. She wonders who read Moe’s fate. She wonders who else Elder Suenaga read for. She
wonders who read Elder Suenaga’s fate. Did they have hands as soft as his? “A steady path,” is
the first thing that the Elder says, “Not suitable for Genjutsu. Honest and straightforward. It is
shown in your palms. You will share two children with a Hyūga, both you will name after your
brothers. You will live longer than most shinobi as a Proctor for exams, whether it is Chūnin or
Jōnin, will be known, and if you wish to know still, return to me when you graduate. I will be
able to give you a clear answer then.” She feels the silent thrum of Elder Suenaga’s Chakra
against her, different from the silent presence of her mother’s or her father’s that is akin more to
a waiting cat than Elder Suenaga’s prawling predator. Questions are stuck in her throat, and she
wonders so deeply she does not know which question to ask first, or what those questions even
are. Her legs ache from how tightly she is sitting in seiza, fidgeting as she tries to pick which
question to ask.
“I give my deepest gratitude to the Elders,” she recites as per tradition. She bites her lower lip
and from the corner of her eyes, she spots Myō’an-nēsan giving her an encouraging look. She
fights back the smile. “Why was Suenaga-chōrōsama chosen to read my fate? My eldest brother,
Kae-aniue had Myō’on-chōrōsama, for Nerin-aniue it was Nobue-chōrōsama, for hahaue it was
Otoha-chōrōsama, and for chichiue, it was Masaaki-chōrōsama. I ask this not to question
Suenaga-chōrōsama, Elders, of course.”
Elder Suenaga raises both eyebrows in amusement. “It is because Akene-kun was born in May
and I, November. Our births align. We are the opposite sides of each other, and therefore, I am
the most suitable to read your fate, just as Kae-kun had Myō’on-san, and your father for
Masaaki-san. What are opposites, are what is the most complimentary. Read about our birth
practices and you shall know. Now, do you have more questions?” He asks once more.
And Akene has a lot. In these three days of her and her cousin’s fate-reading, unable to walk
outside of the compound of the Elders, she devours every single answer they can offer her. Every
time she thinks she has gotten her fill, Cousin Moe will ask another, and in turn, so will another
of her cousins, and then another, and another, and the varying answers of an Elder or two will
send them careening to ask more. No wonder, she realizes, why they are given three whole days
with the Elders of their Clan who know the most, will answer the best, and will give them all the
correct replies. She knows that if she asks her mother and father the same questions, they will

still answer to the best of their ability—“You may ask the right questions to the right person,
and only then will you receive the right answer,” Chigiri Junji once said, as stated and recorded
during the later years of the Warring Clans Era after he was invited by the Senju Hashirama to
join the village he was going to make. Even the great Senju Hashirama and Tobirama praised
their Chigiri Junji for his wisdom.
Keeping secrets is frowned upon in the Clan. What is yours, is yours, as it is mine, and ours.
Everything and everything in between of everything are shared, and for the longest time, this is
all Akene has ever known, not that she has to know anything else; once, during midday, the
cousin who was at the front of the line asked one of the Elders why the civilians look at him
strangely when he walks out of the compound. There is no need to sugarcoat their words, of
course. Misinformation can lead to danger and one of the biggest cases of misinformation was
during the Second Shinobi War (and Akene can recite this with her eyes closed and all): Senju
Tsunade, Orochimaru, and Jiraiya who were not known as the Sannin then, were informed only
of Sunagakure’s presence in Amegakure, assuming that Amegakure has little to no defense due
to their elusive nature, until they were bent broken and bruised by the Land of Rain’s Hanzō the
Salamander. And as Chigiri Junji said: “There is no malice in information. They are only
written and spoken words. What you choose to do with it, is where the crisis lies.”
It is Elder Suenaga who answers, seeing as he is one of the two civilians among the crowd of
Elders. His voice is deep and he speaks slowly for all children to hear. “Civilians always feel wary
of shinobi clans. It is in one’s nature to be wary of those more physically powerful than you, is it
not?—” A resounding ‘yes, Suenaga-chōrōsama’. “—however, you must consider our
relationship with them. I, as a civilian, apprenticed under a member of the Chigiri Clan, as did
my master before me, and the master before him. Many of you will be civilians as well and will
apprentice under a Chigiri, and no one else. We have never shown a need for them as we have
our own; there is a gap between the civilians and the Clan, and there is no need to mend what is
broken, in this case.”
What is, is. What is not, is not.
Fact one: the Chigiri Clan and the civilians of the village neither have a good nor a bad
relationship. Fact two: the Chigiri Clan and the Uchiha Clan have a tension tighter than most
people think. It is an age-old grudge. To the Uchiha, who live among secrets, and to the Chigiri
who rival their kinsmanship but are ruthless with their truths. Akene doubts she can understand
this now when she is barely old enough to enter the Academy but there is no doubt there it is the
truth. The sky is blue is as true as how one day, Akene will marry someone of the Hyūga Clan,
have two children whom she will name after her older brothers, become a proctor of the exams
of either the Jōnin or the Chūnin. “One might ask,” recites Elder Otoha during the closing
ceremony, “Why must fates be read? Why must mere mortals interfere with what the gods have
written on stone? But what many do not understand is that this is not ‘interference’. This is
‘trust’. This is the ‘truth’. The character that forms the Chigiri name is pledge. It is a vow, and
along with it, means ‘fate’. I am a member of the Chigiri Clan, as you are a member of the Chigiri
Clan. To this, we share our blood. To this, we share.”

What is, is. What is not, is not.
Akene drinks from the same pitcher as the Lord Elders like the rest of the children. The
giddiness at the pit of her stomach blooms despite the sickening taste of alcohol hitting the back
of her throat. The three days end, the ceremony has ended just as fast, and Akene walks out with
a smile larger than it has ever been.
There is a famous saying in the Clan: ‘There is no coincidence, only fate. There is no future, only
destiny, such that each string of fate is tied to a greater purpose.’ Even from the poorest of
souls to the most rich and wealthy, each individual is essential in the bigger picture. Akene,
today, was given her destiny, her fate, the future that will tie her together with the Clan, and she
would rather be damned than become anybody else. Because at the end of the day, she is Chigiri
Akene, and there is nothing more that matters than her being Chigiri Akene, because what is, is.
What is not, is not.

CHIGIRI AKENE WAS BORN FROM CHIGIRI AYUNA AND NATSUNO WHO
ALREADY HAD TWO CHILDREN PRIOR TO HER. They are normal shinobi; her mother
retired at Chūnin after giving birth to her second eldest brother while her father is a Tokubetsu
Jōnin who works in the Konohagakure Intelligence Division just like his father before him, and
the one before that. He does not leave the village that much and comes home in time for dinner
and most days, the whole family with the exception of her Chūnin eldest brother is in the village.
Recently, her second brother has been leaving a lot, praised for his being skilled in spying.
Of course, her family has their own quirks as do most families. Chigiri Ayuna has a bad
relationship with her older brother and, to ease the mourning of her days as a shinobi back in
the Third Shinobi War—she speaks of it with sadness, a deep-set emotion that strikes to the
bone, but she always makes sure to smile after. Chigiri Natsuno is more silent than he is
talkative. He does not even twitch when Akene’s two brothers fight in the middle of the dining
people when they were a child and even now when they are adults. He is a passive, silent man
but Akene can proudly say that her father has always been there, silent he may be. Her second
brother has an obsession over all things Yondaime; he speaks of wanting to become like
Namikaze Minato when he becomes a Jounin, and this is where their eldest brother’s Quirk
comes: he tends to be harsh with his words no matter how he tries to play it off as simple. That
does not mean that Akene has a troubled family. Small things like those are what Akene is most
grateful for.
Another thing she is grateful for is the presence of her cousin from the fate-reading ceremony on
her first day of the Academy. Your Cousin Moe has talent in Taijutsu, her mother informed her
when she found out that Cousin Moe was joining her, maybe you can help each other out. It was
surprising at first to be told that Cousin Moe is to join her—one of the traditions of the Chigiri
Clan is to enter the Academy at the age of five, finding ‘six years old’ much too old, but Cousin
Moe is months older than her, and is, Akene is pretty sure, already six years old.

Moe is aware of this, clearly, as she nudges her elbow against Akene’s with a toothy grin. “It’s all
over your face, Akecchi,” she giggles, “You wanna know why I’m with your year, right?”
Akene blinks. She holds her cheeks in embarrassment. “Is it that obvious?”
“It is, it is! Being shy isn’t like you at all, Akecchi,” Moe points out, “But if you wanna know, it’s
‘cause my nēsan volunteered to take care of Myō’on-sama, so I had to take care of her baby.” She
suddenly slings an arm around Akene’s shoulder. Their bones bump against each other and they
cannot help the giggle that slips out. “Is the reason you’re acting weird ‘cause we’re going to the
Academy?”
Akene’s smile drops. She has heard of how her cousins and aunts and uncles were treated in the
Academy due to their peculiar nature, and the civilian students will not be comfortable having
them around too—those are one of the many warnings her mother gave her when she asked
about what the Academy was like during her time. She adores her cousins and clansmen. She
holds them in the highest regard but every shinobi knows how much connections affect the long
run, and every Chigiri knows that information cannot be circulated in just a certain group of
people, and if she wants to be the shinobi she is expected to be, she needs to study as much as
she can, talk to as many people as she can. “C’mon, Akecchi,” sighs Moe dramatically, “You
remember what Junji-sama said?—” And in an unnecessarily deep voice, she continues: “There
is no malice in information. They are only written and spoken words. What you choose to do
with it, is where the crisis lies!”
Moe lets go of her and puts both of her hands on the sides of her waist. With a tilted up chin, she
adds, “If our classmates don’t know that, then that’s their problem!”
She is led to the crowd of children, many of them Akene recognizes as clan members—handfuls
of Hyūga and a fair share of ones from civilian merchant clans, judging by the linings of their
clothes and the way they carry themselves. The Hokage stands in the middle of the crowd upon
the elevated stage. Hiruzen Sarutobi, the Sandaime and the longest-running Hokage since the
birth of the village, student of the Senju Tobirama who Akene admits is her favorite Hokage. The
Nidaime created thousands upon thousands of Jutsu and was also rumored to have even learned
how to bring the dead back to life with just scriptures. Akene imagines the early years of Konoha
and only feels envy: to think that there was a time when the God of Shinobi, Senju Hashirama,
and the Genius of all Geniuses, Senju Tobirama, lived alongside someone from the famed
Uzushiogakure—the best practitioners of the elusive Fūinjutsu!
“He looks older up close, don’t you think?”
“Moe-chan! Shhh!”
The Sandaime states the admission requirements with ease, charisma oozing from every word
Akene hangs on: love the village and hope to help preserve peace and prosperity. Have a mind
that will not yield, able to endure hard training and work. Be healthy in mind and body.—and

just like that, Akene is already stumbling into her own room. She cannot help the displeasure
that she feels when she sees Moe’s name assigned to a different class from hers. There are,
according to her mother, less children in the Academy due to the Kyūbi Incident from years ago.
No doubt, the year after her own will contain even lesser children. The average students each
year in the Academy are at least two-hundred but this does not necessarily mean that all of those
two-hundred students will graduate. Akene and Moe’s batch only has a hundred students, give
or take, and her mother estimates that the next year will have students much less than a
hundred.
Akene is not even surprised to see that there are barely twenty students in her class, mostly
populated by lesser clans than major, noble clans.
She walks to the front row, completely devoid of other students in contrast to the farthest back.
The sensei of the class is already in front, waiting for the other students to arrive. She looks at
him curiously, specifically the silvery blue hue of his hair. “Sensei,” she cannot help but call out.
Despite being startled, the instructor quickly gives her a smile and a small ‘yes’. “Is sensei not a
native of the Land of Fire? Your hair color is really light...”
The instructor blinks before chuckling. “Me? Chigiri-kun has almost the same hair color as me
though,” he gestures to her own head.
“But,” Akene pauses, “It’s common in the Clan so if sensei is secretly a child born from wedlock
then... but that’s impossible since the Clan would never—”
“Ah—” her instructor interrupts her quickly. “Sensei’s ancestors came from the Land of Water,
definitely not your secret cousin, Chigiri-kun.” He shakes his head. “You know, sensei also had a
classmate who was a Chigiri back then. The two of you are very alike.”
Akene pouts. “That’s what everyone says.” Sometimes, it does not mean that it is a good thing.

CIVILIANS, ESPECIALLY ONES FROM MERCHANT CLANS LIKE TENTEN, ARE
TOLD THE ‘GOLDEN RULES’ WHEN THEY DECIDE TO ENTER THE ACADEMY.
And those golden rules are mostly centered around how to act around the clan children that will
be attending there.
One—you want to talk to an Uchiha? You somehow developed a crush on an Uchiha? Don’t. Just
do not even dare to try. While they may be pretty to look at, they are definitely not worth it. They
are arrogant and they think they are better than every other student they are classmates with.
Wait, no. They think they are better than everyone, not just their classmates. Two—a Hyūga said
something rude to you or may have offended you? Suck it up. That is just how they are. Nothing
good will come out from picking a fight with them. The most you will get out of it are a few
broken ribs and a deformed nose. They go all-out in spars so best avoid getting partnered up
with them during then. They like to send people to the hospital. Three—the Akimichi will

somehow always end up first in the line in the cafeteria. Just do not even try to get ahead of
them. Nobody knows why they move so fast. Four—the Chigiri Clan? If they ask you any
questions, just reply with ‘I have no idea’, and they will usually leave you alone after that.
Talking more will just lead to them pestering you more.
There are a lot more rules but those are what Tenten considers to be the most memorable, truth
to be told. But the only reason why she remembers ‘Rule Number Four’ is because she had no
idea what it meant at first. She knows about the Chigiri Clan, of course. Everybody has seen
those creepy pink eyes at one point in their life. Sometimes, gold and sometimes, blue. Tenten
even has a classmate from the Chigiri Clan—Chigiri Akene whose hair is too pale to be
considered suitable for a shinobi, and who has the same creepy pink eyes from the rumors.
Tenten heard that her dad works with the scary guy from the Torture and Intelligence—yeah, the
one with the big scar and big body. You think they eat dinner with him? Who knows about
those Chigiri-people. They’re kind of creepy, don’t you think? Tenten hangs out with
civilian-born kids, and civilian-born kids usually have the best rumor mill to sit around with,
comparable to even those Yamanaka kids.
There really was nothing note-worthy about Chigiri Akene aside from that she always tops the
written tests and the physical exercises, and all the other tests, to be honest—okay, so maybe she
really does stand out. But she does not, you know, stand out-stand out. That type of standing
out like, say, Hyūga Neji in their class. Hyūga Neji stands out just by standing in the middle of a
room and does nothing. Compared to him or the Uchiha in their class, Chigiri Akene keeps a
pretty low profile. Or, that is until Chigiri Akene makes someone cry in the middle of physical
exercises.
“Tenten-chan!” She barely catches her breath. Her lungs are too heavy and bloated at the same
time. Her leg is still tied to her classmate’s; it is apparently a pair-running-thing that will
improve one’s ability to work in teams. ‘When you’re out in the field, it will always be you and
your teammates! So make sure you work well together with them and take care of each other!
That’s what it means to be a shinobi of Konoha—’ or something like that. When her father told
her that the Academy was going to be hard, she did not expect it to be like this. The way he said
it too had a distinct tone: it’s okay if you give up midway. Everybody does. Barely fifty percent
of the students in each year actually make it to graduation, and there are fewer civilian-borns
who will make it up to that point, and even fewer who are going to be notable enough to become
something more than a Career Genin. Tenten does not want to be a Career Genin. She wants to
be just like Senju Tsunade. It is the reason why she entered the Academy in the first place. “Isn’t
that Murai-chan?”
Tenten knows ‘Murai-chan’—Mayoi Murai-chan who everyone teases for having a given name
that sounds like a surname. Even Tenten was confused at first. “Murai-chan?” She moves her
head to the direction of where her classmate is pointing to: said ‘Murai-chan’ with matted dark
hair common in the Land of Fire and Chigiri Akene’s striking silvery blue hair resembling their
Instructor, Mizuki-sensei’s. She heard Chigiri Akene asked Mizuki-sensei about his hair on the
first day of school and accused him of being an immigrant from another country. She wonders

what Mizuki-sensei answered. Everybody just called the Chigiri rude for it. But clan kids get
away with many things.
There is no doubt Chigiri Akene will get away with this too: making Murai-chan cry on the first
week of school. “Ah,” Tenten gapes. Murai-chan is openly crying while Akene has her head tilted
in a way that seems a little confused. “What’s going on?”
Another classmate of hers whose name Tenten cannot admit that she forgot, pipes in with
squinted eyes and an amused look. “Akene didn’t get to the Top Ten in the exercise. Murai-chan
was too slow,” he explains briefly.
Tenten’s partner cringes. “Don’t tell me—”
“—don’t you train?” The question would have sounded venomous if it was asked by anybody
else. But Tenten, knowing the golden rules like the back of her hand, just pities Murai-chan,
because Akene of that Chigiri Clan, is not really being assertive at all, or aiming to tear her apart
and blame her for failing the exercise. Which is probably the worst thing about Akene, because
from her tone, her wide eyes, and her inquisitive stare, Akene is just plain curious. Everybody
can see that but that does not mean little Murai-chan will just stop crying. “You should really try
doing more running exercises. I also have difficulty when it comes to my speed, to be honest. My
cousins tell me that I should just focus on something else to pay that off. I’m working on it, so
you should work on that too. This is the first time I’ve met someone who’s slower than me. If you
work on your running too then maybe—”
Akene’s mouth does not stop.
“—we can get a better result next time. I know it would be hard for me, and especially for the
both of us, but maybe, if you also trained outside of the class, maybe we could have gotten a
better–” Tenten zones out. She cannot hear this anymore. She unties the ribbon binding her
ankle and her partner’s together, and looks at the skies. She feels embarrassed for Murai...
She breathes in. And upon her exhale, she screams in her head. When is Mizuki-sensei going to
come? But Mizuki-sensei is honestly not really great when it comes to dealing with Akene and
her outbursts. Because when he does come, all he does is scold Akene a little and apologize to
little Murai-chan who looks absolutely devastated. Of course, this is not the last instance of
Akene’s outburst because in the second week, she ‘picks a fight’ with the Nara in their class next.
Her cheeks darken with color, and her voice is stark in their classroom, “What do you mean ‘you
can’t do it’?” Her statement sounds more like a demand than a question.
The Nara’s–Rokumaro, Tenten is pretty sure—head lolls backwards a little, snapped awake from
his sleep. He yawns. “That really isn’t my thing...”
“But you’re the one suitable for it?”

“I don’t really—...” Needless to say, Tenten watches the entire class unfold into an argument
between Akene and Rokumaro. Honestly, the girl should have been taught the golden rules
instead of Tenten. She should know better than to push on the clan kids’ buttons like that. As
much as Tenten is more shameless than the majority of the people here, she still knows a lot
better than whatever Akene is doing. All of the following incidents in their first year in the
Academy, however, does not stop Akene from acing majority of their exercises and their written
tests. She tops almost everything and when she does not, she makes sure to top the following
exams after that. She is relentless, Tenten notices, and does not stop until she gets to see her
name on the rankings. She can be a bit of a handful in groupworks though—and Tenten
experienced her leading firsthand, but like everyone says, Akene can be a bit ‘too much’ but she
always makes sure that their group gets perfect marks.
And, surprisingly, despite all the scandals and incidents that happened during their first year in
the Academy, the malice and annoyance directed to Akene just vanished. It is their second year
in the Academy and for some reason, before Tenten even notices it and knows it, Akene is
friends with the entire class. Suddenly, she knows Murai-chan’s favorite shop that sells the
pretty kanzashi she likes to wear and the new variations of it, she is chatting Mizuki-sensei
about the most random of things, and she is actually making the lazy Nara Rokumaro work
while giving him the right amount of free time—suddenly, Akene laughs with the class, even calls
Tenten: ‘Tenten-chan, my cousins passed by your father’s shop earlier; they keep on saying
your shuriken are just made dif erently from others’ and ‘do you think I can join you when you
walk home earlier ‘cause my cousins are just begging for them!’. And suddenly, Tenten is
giggling excitedly and going, “Sure!”
Tenten leans against her hand, thinking silently as she eats her dinner with her family. She does
not even notice the abrupt change until her mother points it out. “Oh? You’re getting along with
Akene-chan now?” She asks.
Frowning, Tenten stops mid-bite. “Huh?”
Her mother smiles, amused. “Just last year you kept talking about how insensitive and ‘mean’
Akene-chan was, you know? Imagine my surprise when I saw you showing off your father’s
works to Akene-chan in the shop earlier. I thought you said ‘she was so mean and just doesn’t
know when to hold back or when to keep her mouth—’” Tenten aggressively waves her hands
around in embarrassment. Her chopsticks click to the dining table with how fast she moves,
dropping them and earning a glare from her mother. “Shh! It was just a misunderstanding!”
Tenten exclaims.
“A misunderstanding?”
Scratching the side of her cheek, Tenten picks her chopsticks back up. She wipes it with a tissue
from beside her and ignores the disgusted expression her mother sends her. She shrugs. “I
mean, Akene-chan’s pretty advanced, you know? She’s a clan kid. She was just helping out
Murai-chan. It was Murai-chan’s fault for not knowing how to accept criticism—”

“Oh?” Her mother passes her a rolled egg. “You said she was a bit harsh with the way she said it
though.”
“Nope,” Tenten corrects, lifting her chin, “Akene-chan’s just very straight-forward and blunt.
And that thing with Rokumaro-kun—well, it was Rokumaro-kun’s fault for being a bit lazy, you
know? They work together well now in groupworks. Akene-chan’s just really misunderstood
because she asks a lot of questions sometimes, but she’s really, really nice, so ‘kāchan, be nice to
Akene-chan the next time I bring her here, okay? Everything I said back then—”
“Zipped up,” her mother responds dutifully, “Affirmative, Kunoichi-san.”
Tenten puffs her cheeks shyly. “You’re now excused, Kunoichi-mama!”

HER MOTHER HAD SCOLDED HER AFTER THE ONE, TWO, THREE,
FOUR-FIVE-SIX-SEVEN-EIGHT—after Cousin Moe, with entertained eyes as if she was
watching a play roll away before her, informed her family about the incidents in the school.
Akene was a failure of a Chigiri then. The Chigiri Clan is a clan of informants, a clan of
information-gatherers, and have been working in the intelligence field since the beginning of
Konohagakure no Sato. In fact, information has been their biggest strength during the Warring
States Era, and the ages before that. And Akene, arrogant, and too used to the environment of
the compounds of the Clan that had reared her and caressed to their chests, missed lots of
important facts: the compound is not the Academy. The Clan are not her classmates.
Of course, her opinions on them are valid: Mayoi Marui-chan is still a little wimpy and does not
try hard enough, Nara Rokumaro-kun is still lazy and does not try at all, Mizuki-sensei is still
easy to poke fun off especially with how eager he is to please his students, and her classmates are
still far from what she expects from them. Of course, there are clearly outstanding students such
as the Uchiha or two in her class, and Hyūga Neji who she cannot seem to beat in most subjects
whenever the girls and the boys are not separated in grading. Her father made it clear that yes,
her thoughts about them are still valid, and there is nothing wrong with them, but to think she
would just recklessly go forth without a plan? Oh, Akene, what are you thinking?
“Why didn’t Moe-chan tell me?” Akene mumbles, pouting.
Moe smiles. “Because Akene-chan didn’t notice, dummy!”
Akene is suddenly ashamed. She knows Moe is older than her and she knows Moe probably
knows a lot more than her since she hangs out with the Elders a lot because of her older sister,
the Chūnin, Miyabi, but Akene should have known better. She knows, of course, that she is right
in more ways than one, but there is a better way to execute what she believes to be right. She is
still annoyed, clearly–Rokumaro-kun does not do his tasks and Marui-chan cannot even walk in
a straight line properly, let alone run—but Akene is missing the bigger picture. Her Academy
debut was horrible, her reputation rock bottom, and this is all because of her lack of care.

“Oh!” Akene clasps her hands together upon realization. “I finally got it now. Thanks,
Moe-chan!”
“Make sure to ask next time, okay, Akecchi!”
“Yup!”
There will always be a gap between the civilians and the Chigiri Clan, as there will always be a
gap between the other clans and the Chigiri Clan; there has always been a gap between the
Chigiri Clan and ‘everybody else’. To the Clan that values information above all else, and truth
among all else, a trust that is unbroken and undeniable—Akene has always known that the Clan
was different but drastically so, that she had little idea of. Marui-chan is a bit more sensitive
than her cousins. Criticisms hurt but Akene’s mother once asked her, when tears stung her eyes
for misspelling something during writing class, “How else would you improve if nobody told
you about it?” There is no such thing, after all, as malicious information. Akene does not know
why her classmates do not know that! Would you not want someone to point out your mistakes
so that you can improve? And Rokumaro-kun also has strange priorities, something she doubts
she can ever understand but in order to accomplish a goal, a group must be united.
Unnecessarily antagonizing each other will do more harm than good.
And Akene is a member of the Chigiri Clan. Her surname is written along the lines of destiny
and promise, and though the civilians may poke fun of its different connotations in other
contexts, Akene is still Chigiri Akene, and a good Chigiri will make sure their bonds and
connections are not broken. Information is shared, and from whom does one get information?
From connections. And—and honestly, Akene does not want to be alienated further by her class.
She is just trying her best. Her ‘trying her best’ may be different from the ‘trying’ of the rest of
the class, but all she needs to do is to learn what ‘trying’ means for them. The Chigiri Clan are
information gatherers, spymasters, and skilled infiltrators, and Akene is surely nothing but a
Chigiri!
She learns Marui-chan loves collecting kanzashi. She learns that Rokumaro has a specific
subject in class that he stays awake in. She learns that the Uchiha in her class rushes out the
moment the bell rings for lunch because he does not want to miss out on the yakisoba-pan in
the cafeteria. She learns that Rock Lee who she and everyone calls a deadlast is surprisingly
good when it comes to Taijutsu. She learns that the baker’s son does not actually like sweets at
all and prefers savory food. She learns that Tenten’s father is a blacksmith and that their whole
family have been blacksmiths for generations. Everything else comes with a stride after that
because she tells Marui that she saw a really pretty kanzashi near this-that district, that she also
enjoys the History of Konohagakure like Rokumaro, that she loves the cafeteria’s yakisoba-pan
and somehow always gets none of it, that maybe Lee can help her with Taijutsu sometimes, that
the baker’s son should try this-and-that from this-and-that, that her cousins like some weapons
in Tenten’s father’s shop.

Half-truths, half-lies. She did not really find the kanzashi pretty. She prefers the History of the
Land of Fire rather than Konohagakure specifically. The yakisoba-pan is pretty mediocre. Lee,
at the end of the day, is still the deadlast even if he does better than a couple of people in
Taijutsu Class. Savory food is just ‘okay’ for her. Her cousins rarely pass by Tenten’s father’s
shop. Their shop is in the opposite direction from the clan compound.
But Akene is in her second year in the Academy and she is friends with half of the class now,
maintaining both a good social standing and good grades. Hyūga Neji still beats her in the
majority of the classes though, and the Uchihas never stop rubbing it in when they one-up her.
There is also one of her classmates, Kawakami Kiri, whom she has never talked to but does not
have friends with because of her Land of Water-esque name, but manages to catch up to her in
Ninjutsu classes every now and then. Who would even name their child ‘Kiri’ when they clearly
live in the Land of Fire? In Konoha, of all places?—and Akene asks this right to Kawakami Kiri’s
face. “Oh,” Kiri’s tone is surprisingly easy-going, “It’s not written that way but thanks for asking!
We kind of match, huh? ‘Chigiri’ and ‘Kiri’?—that’s... that’s not a really funny joke, is it?”
No, it really isn’t, Akene thinks, she’s pretty weird. Akene knows most basic things about her
classmates, and admittedly, Kiri has one of the more interesting backgrounds and ‘interesting
backgrounds’ would have made her quite popular if not for her ‘interesting background’
screaming ‘my family used to be from Kirigakure’; she heard Kiri’s family were weaponsmiths
first and foremost, thus, they made weapons for Kiri-nin, aided Kiri-nin, gave weapons to
Kiri-nin who killed Konoha-nin, and as if her parents wanted to make everything worse for her,
they named her ‘Kiri’ of all things. Kiri is really, really weird.
But she still sits with Kiri during lunch the next day, swamped by the towering tree at the back of
the Academy. She does it again the next day and the day after that, and the weeks after, and the
months—now that she thinks about it, could it be that Kawakami Kiri suddenly became the
person she is closest to outside of the clan? Kind of? Even though the conversations they share
are scarce, and even if it is mostly Akene running her mouth and Kiri commenting every now
and then? And here was Moe-chan accusing her of being too uptight to have friends who are not
members of the Chigiri Clan.
“Ah, that Naruto is getting picked on again,” Akene snaps out of her thoughts when Kiri points
out one of their underclassmen in his first year. Uzumaki Naruto with his blond hair, blue eyes,
and the tendency to disrupt order everywhere he goes. Akene scowls. She pokes on her food, for
once, a yakisoba-pan. “He should really stop doing those pranks, honestly. Did you see the
Hokage Monument earlier?”
“I saw,” Akene huffs and leans back with her palms to the ground. She did not know what to feel
about that. She just—she does not understand why people do that, why Uzumaki Naruto, who is
oddly hated by the entire village, is making things worse for himself. She has seen Naruto before,
of course. Everybody knows about him. Moe brings him up every now and then and complains
sometimes about being a victim of his pranks since her classroom is much closer to the first
years’ classrooms compared to Akene’s. Moe has nothing good to say about him. Her classmate,

the baker’s son, has a lot to say about Naruto too. “I heard he doesn’t even go to class,” she adds,
“Doesn’t his Chūnin Instructor scold him?”
Kiri laughs. “He always does. Never works though—”
“That’s just—annoying.”
“Akene-chan?”
Uzumaki Naruto is a walking anomaly. Akene dislikes those types of people the most. It goes
against everything that the Chigiri Clan believes in. “He’s probably not going to graduate,”
Akene waves off. She ignores the curious look Kiri gives her as she finishes her yakisoba-pan. By
the time they both finish, Uzumaki Naruto is no longer surrounded by his classmates. He stays
on the ground for a few more minutes, his back turned to them, and finally stands.

THERE WILL ALWAYS BE SOMETHING WRONG ABOUT KILLING, something to
pick apart regardless of whatever sin the killed committed. It is one of the first things Akene
learned about the Academy and what it means to become a shinobi. There is no need to mince
words or to sugarcoat it because it is what it is: all shinobi kill, and all first kills, second kills,
third kills, the fourth kills will always happen no matter how much you avoid it—the first year of
being a shinobi will always be hard for anyone regardless of the person that they are. And taking
away the life of someone will always mean more than it is supposed to for you are dragging your
knife across someone’s throat, snapping away their life. When one kills someone, they are killing
their family, their future, their past, and not just their present. To be a shinobi means to kill.
People kiss the ground the Yondaime walks on, and her second brother worships him and
praises his name, but he only became famous and had the chance to become the Yondaime
because he massacred thousands of Iwa-nin in a matter of seconds.
Of course, it is easier to start early, and when the Academy teaches Akene how to cut open a
rabbit in the cleanest way without touching its stomach or wasting its fur, it is only in her second
year. She is accompanied by Kiri who clumsily cuts through skin and bone. Mizuki-sensei
praises one of the Uchiha, the one who killed and skinned the fastest. The game that happens a
week later is just that. A game. Many complained, of course, within the groupings in which the
group who caught the required fifteen rabbits the fastest, will get additional points. It starts like
this: all of the ten groups have ten points and with each failure in the skinning and the killing, a
point will be deducted. And if your mistakes go past ten, then there will be supplementary
lessons for you.
An efficient game to teach shinobi to prioritize the mission by offering something in return, and
thus learning to weigh in their decisions—are you going to waste time talking about morality
and the idea of killing little rabbits and making a game about it? Or, are you going through the
task, hone your skills, and get high marks? It is a good game, honestly. One can learn to be as
fast as they are efficient while taking in consideration your teammates and making sure they do

their job well. This is not the first time Akene has killed a rabbit, of course, but this is the first
time she makes a game about it. And five rabbits in, the ‘lives’ become ‘points’, and before she
knows it, that is all it becomes.
There will always be something wrong about killing regardless of what most people say. Her
groupmate, Hyūga Neji with a bandage across his forehead and a frown unmoving ever since he
entered the Academy, is surprisingly clumsier in killing the rabbit, unsure whether he is to
coddle it or just get through with the task. Kiri has been telling Akene to watch her mouth as
many may not take her words kindly but she still prattles on with disregard, “You should hurry
up. Don’t you always get perfect marks? Here—” Akene’s kunai reaches for Neji’s rabbit, throat
pouring, and skin blooming dark along the brown fur. It is stark and evident. “Hurry.” She tries
not to let the annoyance pour out from her tone. And here she thought that being in the same
group as Neji would have put their team in first place but still, an Uchiha stands at the top.
The Uchiha is steady at the high ranks, his name sitting in the displayed names in the hallway.
Taijutsu is not her strongest suit and she has never beaten any of the Uchiha in the class or Neji.
Kiri says it does not matter because at the end of the day, she tops their Ninjutsu Lessons and
their Written Tests. You don’t do bad in Taijutsu, Akene-chan. You’re still in the Top Ten—
It is during a game that Neji approaches her again. Their class’ sparring somehow falls into place
such that Neji went up early against one of the Uchiha, the best in the class and the one said to
be closely related to the Uchiha Clan’s Head, and thus, lost despite the Hyūga’s so-called
excellence in Taijutsu. With the same frown, the same glare, and the same stern demeanor, he
tells her, “I owe you one,” his face is pinched, “The Uchiha’s favoring his right since I hit him
hard on his left. Do what you want with that information.” And Akene does, grinning brightly as
she topples the Uchiha to the ground, relishing in the surprised expression the arrogant prick
gives her. And, it turns out, Neji’s information is more useful than it seems, dragging Akene to
the top of this week’s Taijutsu matches.
Their exchanges continue just as so: Akene returns the favor to Neji who had given her more
than she had expected, Neji makes the most of it, Akene gives back another, and so does Neji.
And Moe’s eager and watchful eyes form a conclusion, her fist hitting her own flat palm. “Maybe
the one the Elder’s talking about is your Neji-kun?” She teases and pokes a finger to Akene’s
cheek.
Rubbing her face uncomfortably, Akene shrugs, “If it’s Neji, then I don’t mind,” they work well
together. Surprisingly so. And they have formed a good alliance for two people who used to not
talk at all outside of groupworks. Their ‘teamwork’ in making sure one of them gets the first
place and not the Uchiha, however, is put into a staggering halt in the middle of their third year
when Mizuki-sensei stands in front of the class with a forlorn expression. Three students are
absent, the same three students that have never been absent since they were first years in the
Academy regardless if they were sick, injured, or had any emergency.

But now, the three Uchiha in their class are absent. And it is because of the Uchiha Clan’s heir,
or ‘former’ heir, now S-Rank Missing-nin, charged for the massacre of his entire clan with the
exception of his younger brother.

To the Main Family of Land of Iron:
Greetings to the Venerated Main Family.
I am Chigiri Natsuno of the Fire Branch, given permission to write on behalf of the
Acting Clan Head of the Fire Branch and its Elders. I am here to report the recent birth
of my daughter, Chigiri Akene, who was born forty-nine days after the death of Chigiri
Tsubomi of Sunagakure. I understand the implications of this and I would like to be
informed of whatever plans the Clan Elders and the Main Family, as her father. If it is
not intrusive nor a bother, my wife and Akene’s mother would like a copy of Chigiri
Tsubomi’s family registry.
If Tsubomi-dono’s family wishes for ours as well, we will gladly send ours.
Whatever the Main Family asks of us, we will be honored to hear out, only in exchange
for transparency between the Main Family and our humble family of the Fire Branch.
Representative of the Fire Branch,
Jōnin Chigiri Natsuno of Konohagakure no Sato

終